docs: Add a super high-level overview of the platform. (#140)
openedx/docs.openedx.org: source/developers/concepts/platform_overview.rst

Platform Overview
#################

The Open edX Platform is made up of multiple web services that work together to
provide all the tools you might need to build and run courses online.

Tech Stack
**********

> While there are a few exceptions for the most part the technology stack for the

Reviewer: While there are a few exceptions, for the most part, the technology stack

> Open edX Platform is based on `Django`_ based backend servers and `React`_ based
> frontend apps.  There are multiple frontend apps which are usually referred to as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open edX Platform uses `Django`_ for backend services and `React`_ for the frontend.
There are multiple frontend apps which are usually referred to as
```

> MFEs(Micro-FrontEnds) within the ecosystem and community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MFEs (Micro-FrontEnds) within the ecosystem and community.
```

The core code base lives on GitHub in the `openedx`_ organization.

Platform Layout
***************

While the platform contains many services, MFEs and libraries the core of the
platform lives in the `edx-platform`_ and `frontend-platform` repositories.

* edx-platform - This was the first service created in the Open edX ecosystem and

>   contains the legacy monolith application. That application currently can run

Reviewer: Is it worth specifying further the relationship between these two modes? For someone coming to this cold, I might have questions like, Are the two modes coupled? Does one always require the other? Can you run one without the other?

Author: This might be worth its own document in the edx-platform docs.  That we could link to from here in the future.

  in two modes.

>   As the LMS(Learning Management System) it serves as the backend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  As the LMS (Learning Management System) it serves as the backend
```

  for learner data as they go through courses, programs, and serves some legacy
  UI elements.

>   As the CMS(Content Management System) it serves as the place where instructors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  As the CMS (Content Management System) it serves as the place where instructors
```

>   As the CMS(Content Management System) it serves as the place where instructors

Reviewer: For clarity I think it should specify that the name of the authoring environment is Studio.

>   and course authors can build the course content that learners will consume.

Reviewer 2: Might be worth mentioning that there's still a lot of legacy server-side rendered templates and views in edx-platform.

Author: Yea, I mention that in the exceptions section below.

* frontend-platform - This is a newer core system meant to ease the creation of

>   multiple small frontend applications(MFEs) by bundling together many common

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  multiple small frontend applications (MFEs) by bundling together many common
```

>   utilities that all frontends need.  This includes things like auth workflows,

Reviewer: author workflows

  logging, monitoring and translations related tooling.

Along with these two core systems, there exist a number of other `backend
services`_ and `MFEs`_ which you can find on GitHub.

Libraries
=========

In addition to the backends and front-ends mentioned above, the platform is made

> of numerous 1st party libraries, that live in the `openedx`_ organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of numerous libraries, that live in the `openedx`_ organization.
```

These libraries accomplish a variety of different tasks, and you can find more
details about what they do in their READMEs.

Exceptions
**********
While the above summary covers most of the system, there are a few exceptions to
be aware of.

Non-Django Backends
===================
The `cs_comments_service`_ which provides discussion forum capability within the
platform is a legacy application that is written in Ruby, using the Sinatra
framework.

Non-React Frontends
===================
The Open edX Platform is currently still in the process of moving to React based
MFEs.  Previously front-end content used to be served by the Django services.
This means that there are still many parts of the system that use `Django

> Template`_ based rendering pipelines to serve frontend content to users.

Reviewer 2: Still some Mako in there too. :-(

Author: yep, got that in a special note below.

Platform Overview
#################

The Open edX Platform is made up of multiple web services that work together to

> provide all the tools you might need to build and run courses online.

Reviewer 3: removing "you"
```suggestion
provide all the tools needed to build and run courses online.
```

Tech Stack
**********

> While there are a few exceptions, for the most part the technology stack for the

Reviewer 3: Either "While there are a few exceptions" or "for the most part" can be removed and the sentiment withstands.

> Open edX Platform uses `Django`_ for backend services and `React`_ for the frontend.
> There are multiple frontend apps which are usually referred to as
> MFEs (Micro-FrontEnds) within the ecosystem and community.

Reviewer 3: Phrasing to tie the two sentences together.
```suggestion
Open edX Platform uses `Django`_ for backend services and `React`_ for the frontend.
The frontend consists of multiple frontend apps which are usually referred to as
MFEs (Micro-FrontEnds) within the ecosystem and community.
```

The core code base lives on GitHub in the `openedx`_ organization.

Platform Layout
***************

> While the platform contains many services, MFEs and libraries the core of the
> platform lives in the `edx-platform`_ and `frontend-platform` repositories.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While the platform contains many services such as MFEs and libraries, the
core of the platform lives in the `edx-platform`_ and `frontend-platform`
repositories.
```

* edx-platform - This was the first service created in the Open edX ecosystem and
  contains the legacy monolith application. That application currently can run

>   in two modes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  in two modes: LMS and Studio.
```

  As the LMS (Learning Management System) it serves as the backend

>   for learner data as they go through courses, programs, and serves some legacy

Reviewer 3: who/what is they here?

>   for learner data as they go through courses, programs, and serves some legacy

Author: ```suggestion
  for learners' data as they go through courses, programs, and serves some legacy
```

>   As the LMS (Learning Management System) it serves as the backend
>   for learner data as they go through courses, programs, and serves some legacy
>   UI elements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  As the LMS (Learning Management System), it acts as the backend
  for learner data as they go through courses and programs, and it serves some 
  legacy UI elements.
```

>   for learner data as they go through courses and programs, and it serves some 

Author: ```suggestion
  for learners' data as they go through courses and programs, and it serves some 
```

>   As Studio it is the CMS(Content Management System) where instructors and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  As Studio, it is the CMS(Content Management System) where instructors and
```

  course authors can build the course content that learners will consume.

* frontend-platform - This is a newer core system meant to ease the creation of

>   multiple small frontend applications (MFEs) by bundling together many common
>   utilities that all frontends need.  This includes things like authentication
>   workflows, logging, monitoring and translations related tooling.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  multiple MFEs by bundling together many common utilities that all frontends 
  need.  This includes things like authentication workflows, logging,
  monitoring and translations related tooling.
```

Along with these two core systems, there exist a number of other `backend

> services`_ and `MFEs`_ which you can find on GitHub.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
services`_ and `MFEs`_ which can be found on GitHub.
```

Libraries
=========

> In addition to the backends and front-ends mentioned above, the platform is made

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the backends and frontends mentioned above, the platform is made
```

> of numerous libraries, that live in the `openedx`_ organization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of numerous libraries that live in the `openedx`_ organization.
```

> These libraries accomplish a variety of different tasks, and you can find more
> details about what they do in their READMEs.

Reviewer 3: We should avoid the use of the word "you" since this is formal documentation.
```suggestion
These libraries accomplish a variety of different tasks. More details about
what they do can be found in their READMEs.
```

Exceptions
**********

> While the above summary covers most of the system, there are a few exceptions to
> be aware of.

Reviewer 3: We can remove "to be aware of".
```suggestion
While the above summary covers most of the system, there are a few exceptions.
```

Non-Django Backends
===================
The `cs_comments_service`_ which provides discussion forum capability within the
platform is a legacy application that is written in Ruby, using the Sinatra
framework.

Non-React Frontends
===================
The Open edX Platform is currently still in the process of moving to React based

> MFEs.  Previously front-end content used to be served by the Django services.

Reviewer 3: We should stick to either frontend or front-end
```suggestion
MFEs.  Previously frontend content used to be served by the Django services.
```
